Docs: Document caching mechanisms (#52514)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/02-data-fetching/02-patterns.mdx

---
title: Data Fetching Patterns
nav_title: Patterns
description: Learn about common data fetching patterns in React and Next.js.
---

There are a few recommended patterns and best practices for fetching data in React and Next.js. This page will go over some of the most common patterns and how to use them.

### Fetching Data on the Server

Whenever possible, we recommend fetching data on the server. This allows you to:

- Have direct access to backend data resources (e.g. databases).
- Keep your application more secure by preventing sensitive information, such as access tokens and API keys, from being exposed to the client.

> - Fetch data and render in the same environment. This reduces both the back-and-forth communication between client and server, as well as the work on the main thread on the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fetch data and render in the same environment. This reduces both the back-and-forth communication between client and server, as well as the [work on the main thread](https://vercel.com/blog/how-react-18-improves-application-performance) on the client.
```

- Perform multiple data fetches with single round-trip instead of multiple individual requests on the client.
- Reduce client-server [waterfalls](#parallel-and-sequential-data-fetching).
- Depending on your region, data fetching can also happen closer to your data source, reducing latency and improving performance.

You can fetch data on the server using Server Components, [Route Handlers](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/route-handlers), and [Server Actions](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions).

### Fetching Data Where It's Needed

> If you need to use the same data (e.g. current user) in multiple components in a tree, you do not have to fetch data globally, nor props drill. Instead, you can use `fetch` or React `cache` in the component that needs the data without worrying about the performance implications of making multiple requests for the same data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to use the same data (e.g. current user) in multiple components in a tree, you do not have to fetch data globally, nor forward props between components. Instead, you can use `fetch` or React `cache` in the component that needs the data without worrying about the performance implications of making multiple requests for the same data.
```

### Parallel and Sequential Data Fetching

When fetching data inside React components, you need to be aware of two data fetching patterns: Parallel and Sequential.

<Image
  alt="Sequential and Parallel Data Fetching"
  srcLight="/docs/light/sequential-parallel-data-fetching.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/sequential-parallel-data-fetching.png"
  width="1600"
  height="525"
/>

- With **sequential data fetching**, requests in a route are dependent on each other and therefore create waterfalls. There may be cases where you want this pattern because one fetch depends on the result of the other, or you want a condition to be satisfied before the next fetch to save resources. However, this behavior can also be unintentional and lead to longer loading times.
- With **parallel data fetching**, requests in a route are eagerly initiated and will load data at the same time. This reduces client-server waterfalls and the total time it takes to load data.

#### Sequential Data Fetching

> If you have nested components, and each component fetches its own data, Then, data fetching will happen sequentially if those data requests are different (this doesn't apply to requests for the same data as they are automatically [memoized]()).

Reviewer: TODO link

  // Wait for the playlists
  const playlists = await getArtistPlaylists(artistID)

  return (
    <ul>
      {playlists.map((playlist) => (
        <li key={playlist.id}>{playlist.name}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  )
}

export default async function Page({
  params: { username },
}: {
  params: { username: string }
}) {
  // Wait for the artist
  const artist = await getArtist(username)

  return (
    <>
      <h1>{artist.name}</h1>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <Playlists artistID={artist.id} />
      </Suspense>
    </>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/artist/page.js" switcher
// ...

async function Playlists({ artistID }) {
  // Wait for the playlists
  const playlists = await getArtistPlaylists(artistID)

  return (
    <ul>
      {playlists.map((playlist) => (
        <li key={playlist.id}>{playlist.name}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  )
}

export default async function Page({ params: { username } }) {
  // Wait for the artist
  const artist = await getArtist(username)

  return (
    <>
      <h1>{artist.name}</h1>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <Playlists artistID={artist.id} />
      </Suspense>
    </>
  )
}
```

> In cases like this, you can use [`loading.js`]() (for route segments) or [React `<Suspense>`]() (for nested components) to show an instant loading state while React streams in the result.

Reviewer: TODO link

```tsx filename="components/User.tsx" switcher
import { getUser } from '@utils/getUser'

export const preload = (id: string) => {
  // void evaluates the given expression and returns undefined
  // https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/void
  void getUser(id)
}
export default async function User({ id }: { id: string }) {
  const result = await getUser(id)
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="components/User.js" switcher
import { getUser } from '@utils/getUser'

export const preload = (id) => {
  // void evaluates the given expression and returns undefined
  // https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/void
  void getUser(id)
}
export default async function User({ id }) {
  const result = await getUser(id)
  // ...
}
```

```tsx filename="app/user/[id]/page.tsx" switcher
import User, { preload } from '@components/User'

export default async function Page({
  params: { id },
}: {
  params: { id: string }
}) {
  preload(id) // starting loading the user data now

>   const condition = await fetchCondition()

Author: Tbh, I don't like how this example is laid out, it's a bit confusing. Let me see if I can improve it.
